It is not uncommon as an engineering student to be confronted with the criticism that science and engineering is the pursuit of money and power over humanistic endeavors. I believe this sentiment to be a travesty because I have experienced firsthand the rewards of applying scientific and engineering principles to real-world challenges that affect people’s lives. I have been very fortunate to have had the opportunity to work on a wide range of projects for diverse clients ranging from start-ups to institutions such as the Academy Awards and the U.S. Agency for International Development. It was a natural transition from my undergraduate experience to working in the private sector as an engineer and project manager at a high-tech start-up after graduation. However, the most profound experience of my professional career so far has been working as a social entrepreneur in Africa, setting up an engineering and business consulting firm that uses science and technology and entrepreneurship to alleviate poverty. I had the great fortune of spending the summer of 2010 in Kigali, Rwanda, where I worked with the International Youth Foundation (IYF) on the launch of a new African social enterprise called Rwinkwavu. Rwinkwavu is a business consulting firm that helps poor, rural Rwandan farmers and entrepreneurs develop and implement business plans that help them grow their businesses and increase their income. The goal of the Rwinkwavu business model is to make Rwandan farmers more sustainable and independent by empowering them with the skills and tools they need to make a living. I got to work with a dynamic team of Rwandan engineers, business professionals, and social entrepreneurs. Our diverse team included both professionals who had worked in the corporate world and recent college graduates. I was excited to be involved with the planning and implementation of this new project, and I relished the opportunity to apply the lessons I had learned from my engineering education to the process of building a business and engineering a solution to a real-world problem. I was able to use my knowledge of project management
