For the past five years, I have seen the name "New York Times" plastered on newspaper stands, websites, and television stations. Although it is a household name, the New York Times is often viewed as a prestigious institution with strict standards. However, the reality of the Times is far different from its public image. Although the New York Times is often portrayed as the paragon of journalistic integrity, its treatment of minority groups and women has been far from exemplary. As a result of the Times’ antiquated hiring practices, minority groups such as African Americans, Latinos, and Asians are drastically underrepresented. In 2013, the New York Times received 1,140 resumes for its vacant position of Metro reporter. Out of those resumes, only seven were from African Americans. Of the forty-three hires made by the Times in 2013, only two were African American. According to a New York Times article, of the 1,129 employees of the Times, only nineteen were African American, and only one was Latino. Although the hiring process of the Times was reformed in 2007 to ensure equal treatment for minority groups, the process was inadequate. The 2007 reforms required a standardized test for all candidates, which was given to the entire pool of applicants. Because African Americans and Latinos are generally not well-represented in standardized testing, the test often puts them at a disadvantage. In order to fix this problem, the Times has begun to hold interviews and meetings with candidates to allow them to better express their qualifications. However, the process is still plagued by problems. According to a recent New York Times article, candidates are only given a few hours to submit a resume and prepare for the interview, which makes it impossible for them to find a job that matches their background. Because of the limited time, they are unable to discuss their previous work experiences and are not given the opportunity to explain their qualifications. In addition, the interviews are structured to elicit an immediate reaction from the candidates, making it difficult for the
